[Docs] Refresh dev tools Console page (#193530)
elastic/kibana: docs/dev-tools/console/console.asciidoc

[[console-kibana]]
== Run API requests with Console

**Console** lets you interact with https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/rest-apis.html[{es} APIs] and https://www.elastic.co/docs/api[{kib} APIs] from within {kib}.

[role="screenshot"]
image::dev-tools/console/images/console.png["Console", width="75%"]

To go to **Console**, find **Dev Tools** in the navigation menu or use the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search bar>>.

> You can also find Console directly on certain Search solution and Elasticsearch serverless project pages, where you can expand it from the footer. This Console, called **Persistent Console**, has the same capabilities and shares the same history as the Console in **Dev Tools**.

Reviewer: cc. @serenachou 😄 

I think it's best to try to avoid naming the "embedded Console" and just say it's available in this other modality.

But the setting to disable that mode is called "persistent" so at very least have to document that as it appears in the settings

> You can also find Console directly on certain Search solution and Elasticsearch serverless project pages, where you can expand it from the footer. This Console, called **Persistent Console**, has the same capabilities and shares the same history as the Console in **Dev Tools**.

Author: I 100% agree with you @ElenaStoeva but after chatting with @leemthompo we thought it'd be better to align with the way it's currently explicitly named in the product (in Advanced settings it is actually referred to as **Persistent console**).

I think "embedded" and "docked" are used internally only. As for me, I would rather avoid giving it any specific name altogether, as from the user's perspective, this is just Console surfacing in different places.

> You can also find Console directly on certain Search solution and Elasticsearch serverless project pages, where you can expand it from the footer. This Console, called **Persistent Console**, has the same capabilities and shares the same history as the Console in **Dev Tools**.

Reviewer: > I think "embedded" and "docked" are used internally only? As for me, I would rather avoid giving it any specific name altogether, as from the user's perspective, this is just Console surfacing in different places.

💯 We don't have to name it the "persistent Console" we can just mention the advanced setting name for how to turn it off

> You can also find Console directly on certain Search solution and Elasticsearch serverless project pages, where you can expand it from the footer. This Console, called **Persistent Console**, has the same capabilities and shares the same history as the Console in **Dev Tools**.

Reviewer 2: > We don't have to name it the "persistent Console" we can just mention the advanced setting name for how to turn it off

Sure, this makes sense to me!

> I think "embedded" and "docked" are used internally only?

Yes, I think we call it "embedded" internally and in the codebase, but I didn't know it's actually called Persistent console in Advanced settings. 😄

[[console-kibana]]
== Run API requests with Console

> Console lets you interact with {es} and {kib} APIs from within {kib}.

Reviewer: 🚗 Say we decide to remove all feature documentation duplication from serverless docs, we might want to remove all mention of Kibana in favor of something like "the UI" which works equally well whether you're working on hosted or serverless.

Author: This is worth debating. Do we want to not say "kibana", or do we want to embrace it and just plainly establish that Kibana is where all solutions, regardless of hosting/architecture, run. "The UI" is vague since we unfortunately have several UIs for now. And telling a consistent story across hosting options also has some benefits.

> It's available on the **Dev Tools** page, that you can access from the navigation menu or the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search field>>.

Author: @shainaraskas @nastasha-solomon @mdbirnstiehl Here's one way we could refer to apps and explain how to access them.

This is not part of any step-by-step instructions but rather the introduction about a feature, what it does, how to find it, which I think is similar to something Shaina was suggesting to call this out at the beginning of a feature doc, even if there's no explicit "Access this feature" section.

Please propose some alternate wording if you feel strongly about it.

Reviewer: I feel like that [global search field info](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/kibana-concepts-analysts.html#_finding_your_apps_and_objects) is kinda buried. I'm wondering if we shouldn't make it much more prominent in the Kibana docs and this might warrant having an identical page in the serverless guide, something like "Finding apps and features in the serverless UI"

Author: Yes this is the idea. This is just about the wording ☝️

Reviewer: Gotcha! Wording wise, I'd say something like:

 `Find <FEATURE> in the navigation menu, or using the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search bar>>.`

Author: This reads nicely, how to adapt when the feature is in fact a tab within another page?

Reviewer: Something like this maybe: `Find <FEATURE> under <PARENT> in the navigation menu or by using the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search bar>>.`

Author: ```suggestion
To go to **Console**, find **Dev Tools** in the navigation menu or use the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search bar>>.
```
Not sure about "under". What about this?

Reviewer: > We have many cases like that, including this one.

Console is also a special case because it's not _only_ available under Dev Tools nowadays, it's also available in persistent mode across Search space on hosted and in ES3. I forgot that documenting that was the reason I was 🚗'ing around this PR 😄.

Reviewer: (yeah "under" is probably bad)

Reviewer 3: > `Find <FEATURE> in the navigation menu or by using the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search bar>>.`

This one reads really nicely. I think your suggestion works Florent for these nested situations. We could be a little more clear that the feature is part of the parent saying something like:

`<FEATURE> is a feature of <PARENT>. Find it in the navigation menu or use the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search bar>>.`

Not sure this clarifications necessary, so I'm fine with either depending on the opinions of others.

Author: I'm a bit hesitant with this wording for the same reason as the previous suggestion with "under": it's not clear whether we are telling users to look for <FEATURE> or <PARENT> in the nav (while it's PARENT). Both are findable through the search though. I'll stick to my current suggestion for this case for now, which gives us 2 patterns:

1. The feature directly available from the nav: `Find <FEATURE> in the navigation menu or by using the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search bar>>.`

2. The feature has no direct entry in the nav but is findable through the search: `To go to **FEATURE**, find **PARENT** in the navigation menu or use the <<kibana-navigation-search,global search bar>>.`

Author: >Console is also a special case because it's not only available under Dev Tools nowadays

Yes true, I'm using this PR to have this wording discussion just because it's timely, but this PR isn't just for that. I'll ping you for review once I add the rest of the commits @leemthompo

Author: @jmikell821 @nastasha-solomon This might be something we want to have in our style guide once we reach consensus

Author: Any more comments/suggestions on the wording here or are we confident this can be generalized?

Reviewer: LGTM

[[console-request]]
=== Run requests

When you're ready to run a request, select the request, and click the play button.

The result of the request execution is displayed in the response panel, where you can see:

* the JSON response
* the HTTP status code corresponding to the request
* The execution time, in ms.

TIP: You can select multiple requests and submit them together.
*Console* executes the requests one by one. Submitting multiple requests is helpful
when you're debugging an issue or trying query
combinations in multiple scenarios.

[float]
[[import-export-console-requests]]
=== Import and export requests

You can export requests:

* **to a TXT file**, by using the **Export requests** button. When using this method, all content of the input panel is copied, including comments, requests, and payloads. All of the formatting is preserved and allows you to re-import the file later, or to a different environment, using the **Import requests** button. 
+
TIP: When importing a TXT file containing Console requests, the current content of the input panel is replaced. Export it first if you don't want to lose it, or find it in the **History** tab if you already ran the requests.

> * by copying them individually as **curl**, **JavaScript**, or **Python**. To do this, select a request, then open the contextual menu and select **Copy as**. When using this action, requests are copied individually to your clipboard. You can save your favorite language to make the copy action faster the next time you use it.

Reviewer: nit: I think it might be clearer to separate "import/export" and "copying individual requests in diff languages" into two different subheadings

Author: I considered it but this page already has too many too small sections and I find it annoying to read. I'll leave this as is for now

+

> When running copied requests from an external environment, you'll need to add https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/kibana/authentication[authentication information] to the request.

Reviewer: I wonder if it would be helpful to link to the Javascript, Python client docs auth sections here?

Author: Do you think it's a common path? (to export from console because workin on clients?) I can links if it is
